README.md, before:

# comp2001-cw2

[![wakatime](https://wakatime.com/badge/user/55c30436-1509-4eb9-9f18-fa9b7c6060c4/project/5f7a8f4f-1835-4c5e-9247-f8f017771ee8.svg)](https://wakatime.com/@coreyrichardson/projects/ouktfmbpqg?start=2024-12-28&end=2025-01-07)

![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3670A0?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=ffdd54)
![Flask](https://img.shields.io/badge/flask-%23000.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=flask&logoColor=white)
![MicrosoftSQLServer](https://img.shields.io/badge/Microsoft%20SQL%20Server-CC2927?style=for-the-badge&logo=microsoft%20sql%20server&logoColor=white)
![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/docker-%230db7ed.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=docker&logoColor=white)

## Running the API via Docker

### Building the Container

<!-- RUN FROM FROM /cw2 -->
```bash 
docker build -t trails-api .
docker login
docker tag trails-api coreyrichardson1/trails-api
docker push coreyrichardson1/trails-api
```

### Pulling and Running the Container

```bash
docker pull coreyrichardson1/trails-api
docker run -p 8000:8000 coreyrichardson1/trails-api
```
```
 * Serving Flask app 'config'
 * Debug mode: on
WARNING: This is a development server. Do not use it in a production deployment. Use a production WSGI server instead.
 * Running on all addresses (0.0.0.0)
 * Running on http://127.0.0.1:8000
 * Running on http://172.17.0.2:8000
Press CTRL+C to quit
 * Restarting with stat
 * Debugger is active!
 * Debugger PIN: 662-058-616
```

The Flask application should be found running [here](http://127.0.0.1:8000).

## API Authentication

All users have access to `READ`/`GET` endpoints, and to the **Authentication** `POST` endpoint `/login`.

To gain access to `CREATE`/`POST`, `UPDATE`/`PUT` and `DELETE`/`DELETE` endpoints, use the `Authentication` endpoint to generate a JWT token and then include this as the `Authorization` header in the format `Bearer <TOKEN>`. This token will expire after an hour.

The following table lists the valid accounts provided in the coursework specification. These accounts have, or any other found in the provided authenticator API, will be given the `ADMIN` role. 

Email                | Password
---                  | ---
grace@plymouth.ac.uk | ISAD123!
tim@plymouth.ac.uk   | COMP2001!
ada@plymouth.ac.uk   | insecurePassword

Send the following `POST` request body to `/login`:

```json
{
    "email" : "grace@plymouth.ac.uk",
    "password" : "ISAD123!"
}
```

This will return a JWT token in the following format:

```json
{
    "token": "<header>.<payload>.<signature>"
}
```

Copy the value of `token` and include it as the value for a header named `Authorization` in your requests, with a `Bearer ` prefix.

```
Authorization:Bearer <token>
```

Without this header present in your request, the routes will be protected and will return you `401 Missing Token`. Other possible responses are `401 Token Expired` and `401 Invalid Token`. Tokens expire 1 hour after generation.

Refer to [Authentication.py](cw2\Project\Authentication.py) for route protection implementation.

Commit message:

Used Postman Collections to Automate Testing

README.md, after:

# comp2001-cw2: TrailService API

[![wakatime](https://wakatime.com/badge/user/55c30436-1509-4eb9-9f18-fa9b7c6060c4/project/5f7a8f4f-1835-4c5e-9247-f8f017771ee8.svg)](https://wakatime.com/@coreyrichardson/projects/ouktfmbpqg?start=2024-12-28&end=2025-01-07)

![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3670A0?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=ffdd54)
![Flask](https://img.shields.io/badge/flask-%23000.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=flask&logoColor=white)
![MicrosoftSQLServer](https://img.shields.io/badge/Microsoft%20SQL%20Server-CC2927?style=for-the-badge&logo=microsoft%20sql%20server&logoColor=white)
![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/docker-%230db7ed.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=docker&logoColor=white)

- Docker Container Name: `coreyrichardson1/trails-api`
- [Docker Hub Link](https://hub.docker.com/r/coreyrichardson1/trails-api)
- [WakaTime Project Time Tracker](https://wakatime.com/@coreyrichardson/projects/ouktfmbpqg?start=2024-12-28&end=2025-01-07)
- [WakaTime Git Commits](https://wakatime.com/@coreyrichardson/projects/ouktfmbpqg/commits)
- [Software Test Document](/Report/SoftwareTestDocument.pdf)

The application is a web-service RESTful API and micro-service that could be used in a larger context to enable users to explore and manage information about walking trails, in a similar manner as is done on alltrails.com.
The system implements a micro-service architecture and is therefore modular, allowing it to be extending or integrated into other services in a larger context with ease. The use of a RESTful API means that the service can be easily accessed through HTTP requests, allowing it to easily interact with other services.

## Running the API via Docker

### Building the Container

<!-- RUN FROM FROM /cw2 -->
```bash 
docker build -t trails-api .
docker login
docker tag trails-api coreyrichardson1/trails-api
docker push coreyrichardson1/trails-api
```

### Pulling and Running the Container

```bash
docker pull coreyrichardson1/trails-api
docker run -p 8000:8000 coreyrichardson1/trails-api
```
```
 * Serving Flask app 'config'
 * Debug mode: on
WARNING: This is a development server. Do not use it in a production deployment. Use a production WSGI server instead.
 * Running on all addresses (0.0.0.0)
 * Running on http://127.0.0.1:8000
 * Running on http://172.17.0.2:8000
Press CTRL+C to quit
 * Restarting with stat
 * Debugger is active!
 * Debugger PIN: 662-058-616
```

The Flask application should be found running [here](http://127.0.0.1:8000).

## API Authentication

All users have access to `READ`/`GET` endpoints, and to the **Authentication** `POST` endpoint `/login`.

To gain access to `CREATE`/`POST`, `UPDATE`/`PUT` and `DELETE`/`DELETE` endpoints, use the `Authentication` endpoint to generate a JWT token and then include this as the `Authorization` header in the format `Bearer <TOKEN>`. This token will expire after an hour.

The following table lists the valid accounts provided in the coursework specification. These accounts have, or any other found in the provided authenticator API, will be given the `ADMIN` role. 

Email                | Password
---                  | ---
grace@plymouth.ac.uk | ISAD123!
tim@plymouth.ac.uk   | COMP2001!
ada@plymouth.ac.uk   | insecurePassword

Send the following `POST` request body to `/login`:

```json
{
    "email" : "grace@plymouth.ac.uk",
    "password" : "ISAD123!"
}
```

This will return a JWT token in the following format:

```json
{
    "token": "<header>.<payload>.<signature>"
}
```

Copy the value of `token` and include it as the value for a header named `Authorization` in your requests, with a `Bearer ` prefix.

```
Authorization:Bearer <token>
```

Without this header present in your request, the routes will be protected and will return you `401 Missing Token`. Other possible responses are `401 Token Expired` and `401 Invalid Token`. Tokens expire 1 hour after generation.

Refer to [Authentication.py](cw2\Project\Authentication.py) for route protection implementation.
